(over)
International Students and Social Security Numbers
International Students and Social
Security Numbers
Are you temporarily in the United States to
attend a college, or a language, vocational,
or nonacademic school? Do you have a
nonimmigrant F-1, M-1, or J-1 student
classification? Your school may ask you for your
Social Security number (SSN). Some colleges
and schools use SSNs as student identification
numbers. If you don’t have an SSN, your
college or school should be able to give you
another identification number.
SSNs generally are assigned to people who
are authorized to work in the United States.
They are also used to report your wages to
the government and to determine eligibility
for Social Security benefits. An SSN will not
be issued just for the purpose of enrolling in a
college or school.
If you want to get a job on campus, you should
contact your designated school official for
international students. This official can tell you if
you’re eligible to work on campus and can give
you information about available jobs. Also, your
school may approve certain limited off-campus
employment, as permitted under Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) regulations. If your
school has authorized you to work either on
or off campus, and you meet our eligibility
requirements described in the next section,
you can get an SSN.
In general, only noncitizens who have DHS’
permission to work can apply for an SSN. We
suggest you wait 48 hours after reporting to your
school before you apply for an SSN. This wait
will help ensure we can verify your immigration
status with DHS.
To apply for an SSN, visit our Request a Social
Security number for the first time page at
www.ssa.gov/number-card/request-number-
first-time. You will need to:
• Start the application online.
• Complete the application, by visiting your
local Social Security office or Card Center
with your documentation within 45 calendar
days. You may be eligible to self-schedule
an appointment online before you visit your
local Social Security office or Card Center.
• Show us original documents proving your:
—Work-authorized immigration status.
—Age.
—Identity.
If you cannot start the application online, you
must visit a Social Security office or Card
Center. You will need to show us original
documents or copies certified by the issuing
agency which prove identity, citizenship/
immigration status, and age. We cannot accept
photocopies or notarized copies.
You will receive your card in the mail. Most
cards arrive 14 days after we approve your
application.
Immigration status
To prove your immigration status, you must
show us a current admission stamp in your
unexpired foreign passport and Arrival/
Departure Record (Form I-94), if available.
If you’re an F-1 or M-1 student, you must
also show us your Certificate of Eligibility for
Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20). If
you’re a J-1 exchange visitor, you must show us
your Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor
Status (Form DS-2019).
Work eligibility
If you’re an F-1 student and eligible to work on
campus, you must provide a letter from your
designated school official that:
• Identifies you.
• Confirms your current school status.
• Identifies your employer and the type of work
you are, or will be, doing.
We also need to see evidence of that
employment, such as a recent pay slip or a letter
from your employer. Your supervisor must sign
and date the employment letter. This letter must
describe:
• Your job.
• Your employment start date.
• The number of hours you are, or will be,
working.
• Your supervisor’s name and telephone
number.
If you’re an F-1 student authorized to work in
curricular practical training (CPT), you must
provide us your Form I-20. The employment
page must be completed and signed by your
school’s designated official.
If you’re an F-1 or M-1 student and have a work
permit (Form I-766) from the DHS, you must
present it.
If you’re a J-1 student, student intern, or
international visitor, you must provide a letter
from your sponsor. The letter should be on
sponsor letterhead with an original signature
that authorizes your employment.
We cannot process your application if:
• Your on-campus or CPT work begins more
than 30 days from your application date.
• The employment start date on your work
permit from the DHS (Form I-766) is a
future date.
Age
You must present your foreign birth certificate if
you have it or can get it within 10 business days.
If you can’t present your foreign birth certificate,
we can consider other documents, such as your
passport or a document issued by the DHS, as
evidence of your age.
Identity
We can only accept certain documents as proof
of identity. An acceptable document must be
current (not expired) and show your name,
identifying information, and preferably, a recent
photograph. We will ask to see your current
unexpired foreign passport with DHS issued
immigration documents.
All documents must be either originals or
copies certified by the issuing agency. We
cannot accept photocopies or notarized
copies of documents. We also cannot
accept a receipt showing you applied for
the document. We may use one document
for two purposes. For example, we may use
your admission stamp in the unexpired foreign
passport as proof of both work eligibility
and identity.
We don’t require you to have an SSN before
you start work. However, the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) requires employers to report
wages using an SSN. While you wait for your
SSN, your employer can use a letter from
us stating that you applied for a number.
Your employer may use your immigration
documents as proof of your authorization
to work in the United States. Employers
can find more information on the Internet at
www.ssa.gov/employer/hiring.htm.
The most convenient way to do business with
us is to visit www.ssa.gov to get information
and use our online services. There are several
things you can do online: apply for most types
of benefits; start or complete your request for
an original or replacement Social Security card;
find publications; and get answers to frequently
asked questions.
hard of hearing. We can answer your call from
8 a.m. to 7 p.m., weekdays. We provide free
interpreter services upon request. For quicker
access to a representative, try calling early in
the day (between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. local time)
or later in the day. We are less busy later in
the week (Wednesday to Friday) and later in
the month. You can also use our automated
services via telephone, 24 hours a day, so you
do not need to speak with a representative.
January 2024 (Recycle prior editions)
International Students and Social Security Numbers