Send hn Mer ron
US. Immigration
SEVP Policy Guidance: Form I-20 Issuance and School Use of Recruiters
Primary Regulation: 8 CFR 2/4.3(&)
Date: June 4, 2019
Issue:
‘The Form 1-20, “Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status,” is issued to
‘nonimmigrant students who have been accepted for enrollment at a U.S. educational institution
certified by the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP). The document is critically
‘important to nonimmigrant students who must present it when applying fora visa and when
‘seeking admission to the United States. In that context, SEVP has been asked whether recruiters
may receive the Form I-20 directly from a school’s designated schoo! official (DSO) and control
the distribution to the prospective student. For reasons of privacy, security and fraud prevention,
the Form 1-20 must be issued directly by a school to the nonimmigrant student, his or her
dependents, or, for minors, to the parent or guardian of the nonimmigrant student.
Background:
‘The Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) was created as part of a
legislative mandate to collect and maintain information on nonimmigrant students who enter the
United States on F, M or J nonimmigrant visas. SEVIS is classified asa system of records, for
Which the Privacy Act requites U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to publish notice in
the Federal Register. This notice is generally referred to as a System of Records Notice
{SORN), which establishes, among other things, authorized disclosures for SEVIS records. The
Form I-20 is a SEVIS record and is therefore subject tothe related SORNS, the first of which
‘was published on March 22, 2005,? and a modified SORN published on January S, 2010.
In addition to the SORNs, SEVP has also published several online resources on SEVIS,
including historical user manuals, fact sheets and webinars outlining user responsibilities,
‘obligations and the importance of protecting the integrity of SEVIS data. These resources state
‘that recruiters cannot be given Forms I-20—“SEVP-cerified school sends Form I-20 directly to
student," and “A recruiter has no proper role in handling [the] Form I-20." Additionally, SEVP
aware of instances where recruiters having obtained a student's Form I-20, subsequently
‘demanded additional payments before providing it back to the student in advance of a meeting
Se System of Recon Natice (SORNS).
2 Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records (70 FR 1447, Mar,
2008),
Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records (78 FR 412, para P, Jan. 5, 2010),
Zia gvinfa gov kg/FR: 201001 -05/pd VES 1268,
‘See Ging Sudenis Rend to Ene the United Sass.
+ See What sa Commission-bnsed Recruiter?
SEVP Policy Guidance
Form I-20 Issuance and School Use of Recruiters
‘with the consulate for a visa or traveling to the United States. Such cases and other potenti
abuses necessitate restrictions on the issuance and distribution of Forms 1-20.
Policy:
For reasons of privacy, security and fraud prevention, the Form I-20 must be issued by a DSO at
an SEVP-certfied school and sent directly to a nonimmigrant student, his or her dependents, or,
for minors, to the parent or guardian of the nonimmigrant student
it distribution of any SEVIS record protets the privacy of individuals,
enhances security, protects agains fraud or manipulation, and is consistent with te relevant laws
and regulations. SEVIS is a restricted database for authorized users only. Information contained
in SEVIS is classified as personally identifiable information and is subject to the SEVIS SORN,
pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974. Consequently, SEVP is required to protect the information
contained inthe Form 1-20 as directed by the SEVIS SORN, which only permits disclosure to
‘enumerated parties and only under limited cireumstances* Consistent with, and in addition to,
the statutory restrictions, SEVP regulations state that only a DSO may issue a Form 1-20 toa
prospective nonimmigrant student and hs or her dependents.”
For these reasons, DSOs are only authorized to release the Form I-20 directly to nonimmigrant
students, their dependents, or, for minors, to their parent or legal guardia
Limits of use ~ no private right of a
This
EVP Policy Guidance applies to and is binding on all SEVP employees unless specifically
i solely forthe guidance of SEVP personnel in the performance of their
official duties. Nothing in this guidance limits SEVP's authority r discretion to interpret,
‘administer or enforce any statute, regulation, policy or guidance related to SEVP cet
‘This guidance may be modified, superseded or withdrawn at any time. It isnot intended to, does
not, and may not be relied upon to create or confer any right or benefit, substantive or
procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any person, individual or other party, public or
private in any administrative, civil or eriminal matter.
es D. Hicks
Division Chief, External Operations
‘Student and Exchange Visitor Program
“Privacy Act of 1974 Department of Homeland Security U.S. Inmigraion and Customs Enforcement-01 Student
EVES) System of Records (78 FR 412, para P),
FHCER 21430)