Premium Processing
What is it?
Premium processing provides expedited processing for the following forms:
Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker;
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker;
Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization; and
Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status.
There is a fee to request this service. If you request premium processing, we guarantee that we will take adjudicative action on the case, as described below, within the time periods described below, or we will refund the premium processing fee:
15 business days for most classifications;
30 business days for Form I-765;
30 business days for Form I-539 applicants requesting a change of status to F-1, F-2, M-1, M-2, J-1 or J-2 nonimmigrant status, once all prerequisites have been met;
45 business days for Form I-140 E13 multinational executive and manager and Form I-140 E21 national interest waiver classifications
Please refer to the charts below for all processing times as new categories become available.
The associated time period begins when we receive a properly completed Form I-907, Request for Premium Processing Service, at the correct filing address. To be considered “properly completed,” a petition or application must have the information required by the form instructions, a valid signature, and the correct filing fee, as specified in the USCIS Fee Schedule. Within the associated time period, we will take one of the following actions on the case: issue an approval notice, denial notice, notice of intent to deny, or a request of evidence; or open an investigation for fraud or misrepresentation.
If the petition or application requires the submission of additional evidence or a response to a notice of intent to deny, the 15-, 30-, or 45-day premium processing time period will stop and reset. A new premium processing time period will begin when we receive a response to the request for evidence or notice of intent to deny.
Who is eligible?
The charts below list the forms, designated classifications within each form type, and current availability and termination dates (when applicable) for premium processing service.
Premium Processing for F-1 Students Seeking OPT and STEM OPT extensions
Beginning March 6, 2023, we began phasing in premium processing for F-1 students seeking optional practical training (OPT) and STEM OPT extensions. As of April 3, 2023, all pending and initial Form I-765 petitions filed by F-1 students in these categories are eligible to request premium processing. Online filing of Form I-907 is also available to F-1 students in these categories.
We will adjudicate premium processing requests for certain eligible and properly filed Forms I-539 and I-765 within the 30-day time frame specified by Congress.
After any I-765 is approved, your EAD card should be produced within two weeks. Your EAD card will be mailed via U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Informed Delivery. The time frame in which you will receive your EAD card may vary, depending on USPS delivery times. Please allow a total of 30 days from approval before inquiring with us. We encourage you to track delivery of your card. If you do not receive your EAD card, please visit e-Request - Self Service Tools (uscis.gov) for instructions on how to submit an inquiry.
How do I file a request for premium processing?
As the petitioner or applicant (or attorney or representative), you must complete and sign Form I-907, Request for Premium Processing Service, according to the instructions on the current version of the form.
If you are an F-1 student and you have already filed Form I-765 requesting OPT or a STEM OPT extension and you now wish to request premium processing, file Form I-907 online or with the Chicago Lockbox.
For Form I-765: (c)(3)(A), (c)(3)(B), (c)(3)(C) requesting OPT or a STEM OPT extension, Form I-907 will be rejected if the application is not an eligible category for premium processing or if we are not able to match your Form I-907 with the receipt for your Form I-765 requesting OPT or a STEM OPT extension. Furthermore, if you submit a single payment for concurrent fillings, we will reject the forms for improper fee payment.
Can I file a premium processing request online?
Only certain F-1 students seeking OPT or STEM OPT extensions, or applicants requesting a change of status to F-1, F-2, M-1, M-2, J-1, or J-2 nonimmigrant status, may file Form I-907 online at this time. If you file a paper Form I-907, or any other USCIS form, you can create an online account to track the status of your case and sign up for case notifications.
To file Form I-907 online, you must first create a USCIS online account, which provides a convenient and secure method to submit forms, pay fees, and track the status of any pending USCIS immigration request throughout the adjudication process. There is no cost to set up a USCIS online account, which offers a superior user experience over paper filing.  If you have previously filed a USCIS form online, you may use your existing USCIS online account.
Fee: link HERE
I-907
Request for Premium Processing Service: *The Premium Processing fee is in addition to all other applicable filing fees. You must submit the Premium Processing fee separately from other filing fees. Form I-907 may not be filed by a beneficiary or co-applicant of the primary form for which premium processing is being requested.
The following benefit requests are designated under the regulations for Premium Processing Service. Please be aware that you may only request premium processing for a benefit if USCIS has announced on its website that premium processing is available for that benefit.
Form I-765, Application for F-1, F-2, J-1, J-2, M-1, or M-2 nonimmigrant classification
Fee:
Paper Filing: $1,685*
Online Filing: $1,685*