Homeland ery Iveta
US. Deparment of Homan Secrey
S013 NW 85600
‘Wotingoe DU 205365600
US. Immigration
and Customs
Enforcement
SEVP Policy Guidance: Use of Electronie Signatures and Transmission forthe Form 1-20
Regulatory and Statutory Background: 8 CFR 214.3(8)
Date: October 12, 2021
Purpose: This guidance establishes the Student and Exchange Vi s
provedures forthe use of electronic signatures on the Form I-20, “Cerificate of Eligibility for
"Nonimmigrant Student Status,” and electronic transmission of the form. Schoo! officials should
use the following guidance when issuing the Form I-20 to initial and continuing nonimmigrant
students and their dependents.
Background: Authorizing regulations require school officials to sign the Form 1-20 before
issuing the form to nonimmigrant students and their dependents (8 CFR 214.3(8).
The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted international mail and courier services in 2020. When,
designated school officials (DSOs) and students were unable to physically meet on campus due
{o travel restrictions and closed campuses, SEVP allowed the Form 1-20 to be signed and
transmitted electronically. This reduced the burden on students, DSOs, and their respective
institutions and avoided pandemic-related disruptions tothe enrolment and education of
‘nonimmigrant students. Allowing electronic signatures and transmission also expedited issuance
of the Form I-20 and helped to avoid expenses and complications related to mailing documents.
In response to Executive Order 14012, “Restoring Faith in Our Legal Immigration Systems and
Strengthening Integration and Inclusion Efforts for New Americans,” SEVP identified
recommendations to inerease efficiency in the immigration system and reduce unnecessary
burdens. Accordingly, SEVP has formally adopted the use of electronic signatures and
transmission for the Form 1-20.
‘Acronyms:
1, DSO. Designated schoo! official
2. SEVP. Student and E
change Visitor Program
SEVP Policy Guidance
Use of Electronic Signatures and Transmission for the Form I-20
1. Use and acceptance of electronic signatures. DSOs may physically sign the Form 1-20 or
input their own electronic signature, SEVP accepts electronic signatures in the following.
forms.
1.1. Electronic signatures using software programs or applications. School officials may
sign all signature fields on the Form 1-20 using electronic signatures produced with software
programs or applications.
1.2. Electronically reproduced copies of a signature. School officials may sign all signature
fields on the Form I-20 using digitally reproduced copies of a signature. A digitally
reproduced copy may be a scanned image of a physical signature.
2. Electronic transmission of the Form I-20, School officials may scan and email an
‘electronic version of a Form I-20 that has been signed using either a physical or electronic
signature, as outlined in Section 1, to nonimmigrant students and their dependents.
‘Alternatively, schoo! officials may use a secure platform that students can access with
individual account credentials to send an electronic version of a Form I-20. This may include
‘school portal or other secure site that students can access.
Upon receipt of the electronically transmitted Form I-20, students should print a copy to
present at any required visa interview and upon arrival at a U.S. port of entry.
References:
B8CFR214.3(8)
Limits of use—no private right of action:
This SEVP Policy Guidance applies to and is binding on all SEVP employees unless specifically
‘exempt. Its intention is solely for the guidance of SEVP personnel inthe performance of their
official duties, Nothing in this guidance limits SEVP’s authority or discretion to interpret,
administer or enforce any statute, regulation, policy or guidance related to SEVP certification.
‘This guidance may be modified, superseded or withdrawn at any time. It is not intended to, does
‘not, and may not be relied upon to create or confer any right or benefit, substantive or
procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any person, individual or other party public or
private in any administrative, civil or criminal matter.
Tahnes D. Hicks
Division Chief, External Operations
‘Student and Exchange Visitor Program