International Students and Social
Security Numbers
Are you temporarily in the United States to days. You may be eligible to self-schedule
attend a college, or a language, vocational, an appointment online before you visit your
or nonacademic school? Do you have a local Social Security office or Card Center.
nonimmigrant F-1, M-1, or J-1 student
• Show us original documents proving your:
classification? Your school may ask you for your
— Work-authorized immigration status.
Social Security number (SSN). Some colleges
— Age.
and schools use SSNs as student identification
numbers. If you don’t have an SSN, your — Identity.
college or school should be able to give you
If you cannot start the application online, you
another identification number.
must visit a Social Security office or Card
SSNs generally are assigned to people who Center. You will need to show us original
are authorized to work in the United States. documents or copies certified by the issuing
They are also used to report your wages to agency which prove identity, citizenship/
the government and to determine eligibility immigration status, and age. We cannot accept
for Social Security benefits. An SSN will not photocopies or notarized copies.
be issued just for the purpose of enrolling in a
You will receive your card in the mail. Most
college or school.
cards arrive 14 days after we approve your
If you want to get a job on campus, you should application.
contact your designated school official for
international students. This official can tell you if Immigration status
you’re eligible to work on campus and can give
To prove your immigration status, you must
you information about available jobs. Also, your
show us a current admission stamp in your
school may approve certain limited off-campus
employment, as permitted under Department of unexpired foreign passport and Arrival/
Homeland Security (DHS) regulations. If your Departure Record (Form I-94), if available.
school has authorized you to work either on If you’re an F-1 or M-1 student, you must
or off campus, and you meet our eligibility also show us your Certificate of Eligibility for
requirements described in the next section, Nonimmigrant Student Status (Form I-20). If
you can get an SSN. you’re a J-1 exchange visitor, you must show us
your Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor
In general, only noncitizens who have DHS’
Status (Form DS-2019).
permission to work can apply for an SSN. We
suggest you wait 48 hours after reporting to your
Work eligibility
school before you apply for an SSN. This wait
will help ensure we can verify your immigration If you’re an F-1 student and eligible to work on
status with DHS. campus, you must provide a letter from your
designated school official that:
To apply for an SSN, visit our Request a Social
Security number for the first time page at • Identifies you.
www.ssa.gov/number-card/request-number- • Confirms your current school status.
first-time. You will need to:
• Identifies your employer and the type of work
• Start the application online. you are, or will be, doing.
• Complete the application, by visiting your
local Social Security office or Card Center
with your documentation within 45 calendar
(over)
International Students and Social Security Numbers
We also need to see evidence of that photograph. We will ask to see your current
employment, such as a recent pay slip or a letter unexpired foreign passport with DHS issued
from your employer. Your supervisor must sign immigration documents.
and date the employment letter. This letter must
All documents must be either originals or
describe:
copies certified by the issuing agency. We
• Your job. cannot accept photocopies or notarized
• Your employment start date. copies of documents. We also cannot
accept a receipt showing you applied for
• The number of hours you are, or will be,
the document. We may use one document
working.
for two purposes. For example, we may use
• Your supervisor’s name and telephone
your admission stamp in the unexpired foreign
number.
passport as proof of both work eligibility
If you’re an F-1 student authorized to work in and identity.
curricular practical training (CPT), you must
We don’t require you to have an SSN before
provide us your Form I-20. The employment
you start work. However, the Internal Revenue
page must be completed and signed by your
Service (IRS) requires employers to report
school’s designated official.
wages using an SSN. While you wait for your
If you’re an F-1 or M-1 student and have a work SSN, your employer can use a letter from
permit (Form I-766) from the DHS, you must us stating that you applied for a number.
present it. Your employer may use your immigration
documents as proof of your authorization
If you’re a J-1 student, student intern, or
to work in the United States. Employers
international visitor, you must provide a letter
can find more information on the Internet at
from your sponsor. The letter should be on
www.ssa.gov/employer/hiring.htm.
sponsor letterhead with an original signature
that authorizes your employment.
We cannot process your application if:
The most convenient way to do business with
• Your on-campus or CPT work begins more
us is to visit www.ssa.gov to get information
than 30 days from your application date.
and use our online services. There are several
• The employment start date on your work things you can do online: apply for most types
permit from the DHS (Form I-766) is a of benefits; start or complete your request for
future date. an original or replacement Social Security card;
find publications; and get answers to frequently
Age asked questions.
If you can’t present your foreign birth certificate, hard of hearing. We can answer your call from
we can consider other documents, such as your 8 a.m. to 7 p.m., weekdays. We provide free
passport or a document issued by the DHS, as interpreter services upon request. For quicker
evidence of your age. access to a representative, try calling early in
the day (between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. local time)
or later in the day. We are less busy later in
Identity
the week (Wednesday to Friday) and later in
We can only accept certain documents as proof the month. You can also use our automated
of identity. An acceptable document must be services via telephone, 24 hours a day, so you
current (not expired) and show your name, do not need to speak with a representative.
identifying information, and preferably, a recent
January 2024 (Recycle prior editions)
International Students and Social Security Numbers