SEVP Policy Guidance S13.2: The Form I-20 and the English Proficiency Field
Issue Date: July 13, 2016
Effective Date: July 13, 2016
Supersedes: N/A
Status: Final
Applicable to: 8 CFR 214.3(k)
Purpose/Background: SEVP regulations and the Form I-20, “Certificate of Eligibility for
Nonimmigrant Student Status,” require a DSO to provide information on a school’s English
proficiency requirements and whether a prospective F-1 or M-1 student1 has met those
requirements.2 Consistent use of the English proficiency field by DSOs is important because it
directly relates to who is eligible for F-1 or M-1 student status.
Attachments: None.
Definitions: None.
Acronyms:
1. DSO. Designated school official
2. SEVIS. Student and Exchange Visitor Information System
3. SEVP. Student and Exchange Visitor Program
Policy:
1. English proficiency requirements and standards for admission. SEVP regulation requires
a DSO to issue a Form I-20 to a prospective F-1 or M-1 student who has met all standards for
admission for a program of study, including any English proficiency requirement. Regulation
prohibits issuance of the Form I-20 based on conditional admission.3
2. Proper Form I-20 English proficiency field scenarios. The following scenarios explain
how the DSO can properly complete the English proficiency field on the Form I-20:
2.1. Scenario 1 – Student meets required English proficiency standard. The following
sample answers denote that the school requires English proficiency as a standard for
admission to the program of study for which the DSO is issuing the Form I-20 and that
the student has met the standard. By using this response, the DSO confirms that the
student meets the required standard.
1 All use of the term “student(s)” refers to F-1 or M-1 student(s).
2 8 CFR 214.3(k)
3 See 8 CFR 214.3(k), 8 CFR 214.4(a)(2)(x) and (xviii) and SEVP Policy Guidance S13.1: Conditional Admission.
Policy Guidance S13.2
The Form I-20 and the English Proficiency Field
2.2. Scenario 2 – School does not require English proficiency. The following sample
answer denotes that the school does not require English proficiency as a standard for
admission to the program of study for which the DSO is issuing the Form I-20. The
DSO must explain why the school does not require English proficiency.
English proficiency is not an admission requirement.
3. Improper Form I-20 English proficiency field scenario. The following sample answers
denote that the school requires English proficiency as a standard for admission to the
program of study for which the DSO is issuing the Form I-20 and that the student has not met
the standard. By using this response, the DSO confirms that the student does not meet the
required standard; therefore, the DSO must not issue the Form I-20.
4. Form I-20 review. SEVP has discretion to verify that a DSO properly issues and certifies a
Form I-20 to an F-1 or M-1 student.
5. Evidence. SEVP can request evidence of a school’s standards for admission and school use
of the English proficiency field, including but not limited to, school catalogues and student
records.4
6. Adverse action. SEVP can deny a school’s recertification or withdraw a school’s SEVP
certification for failure to comply with applicable statutes, regulations, or admissions policies
stated on the school’s Form I-17, “Petition for Approval of School for Attendance by
Nonimmigrant Student.”5
References:
4 8 CFR 214.3(g)
5 8 CFR 214.4(a)(2)(x) and (xviii)
Policy Guidance S13.2
The Form I-20 and the English Proficiency Field
1. 8 CFR 214.3(g)
2. 8 CFR 214.3(k)
3. 8 CFR 214.4(a)(2) (x) and (xviii)
Limits of use – no private right of action: This SEVP Policy Guidance applies to and is
binding on all SEVP employees unless specifically exempt. Its intention is solely for the
guidance of SEVP personnel in the performance of their official duties. Nothing in this guidance
limits SEVP’s authority or discretion to interpret, administer or enforce any statute, regulation,
policy or guidance related to SEVP certification. This guidance may be modified, superseded or
withdrawn at any time. It is not intended to, does not, and may not be relied upon to create or
confer any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any
person, individual or other party, public or private, in any administrative, civil or criminal matter.
Signed by Rachel Canty on July 13, 2016
Deputy Director, External Operations
Student and Exchange Visitor Program