Student and Exchange Visitor Program
SEVP Policy Guidance: Practical Training- Determining a Direct Relationship Between
Employment and a Student's Major Area of Study
Date: September 27, 2019
Purpose:
Federal regulation permits F-1 nonimmigrant students to apply for authorization to engage in
Optional Practical Training (OPT) that is directly related to their major area of study. However,
students are not required to have a job offer prior to initiating the approval process for OPT,
which requires both a recommendation from the school's Designated School Official (DSO) and
an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) from United States Citizenship and
lnm,igration Services (USCIS).2 Because a student might not have employment at the time they
obtain a recommendation or authorization to work and can also change employment at any time
during the OPT period, there has been some uncertainty about the necessary steps to determine if
an OPT request or opportunity is directly related to a student's major area of study.
This guidance addresses both OPT and science, teclmology, engineering and mathematics
(STEM) OPT extension opportunities and explains that students are responsible for providing a
description of how their job relates to their major area of study, which the DSO must review and
retain. When the DSO has concerns about whether the job directly relates to the student's major
area of study, additional documentation may be required to demonstrate the connection.
This guidance supersedes any information previously provided by the Student and Exchange
Visitor Program (SEVP) on this matter.
Background:
In February 2014, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) recommended that SEVP
"develop and distribute guidance to DSOs on how to determine whether a job is related to a
student's area of study and require DSOs to provide information in SEVJS to show that they took
steps, based on this guidance, to help ensure that the student's work is related to the area of
study."3 In response to the GAO Report, SEVP enhanced the Student and Exchange Visitor
Information System (SEVIS) to provide new mechanisms for reporting and tracking student
employment. For example, SEVIS now issues alerts to notify DSOs of students who have failed
to report an OPT employer. In addition, beginning in December 2015, SEVIS made the free text
field, "Explain How Employment is Related to Course Work," mandatory when reporting
employment. This field is provided so that SEVIS will contain a record of how each job relates
1 8 CFR 214.2(/)(/ O)(ii)(A).
2 For STEM OPT the requirements are slightly different and specify that the student have a job or job offer prior to
seeking the STEM OPT extension.
3 GAO Report 14-356, Student and Exchange Visitor Program: OHS Needs to Assess Risks and Strengthen
Oversight of Foreign Students with Employment Authorization.
SEVP Policy Guidance
Practical Training-Determining a Direct Relationship Between Employment and a Student's
Major Area of Study
to a student's area of study. Other mandatory information related to employment includes
employer name, start date, whether the employment is full-time or part-time, and employer
address. Also, SEVIS now tracks unemployment days for individuals participating in practical
training to help ensure that students do not exceed the applicable unemployment limits, which is
90 days for OPT and 150 days for STEM OPT.
Another enhancement is the creation of the SEVP Portal, which launched on March 23, 2018.
The Portal provides students with a way to directly report, through a SEVIS-linked database,
certain required information, including information about employment. The Portal includes a text
field, titled "Relation to Field o/Study: Explain how this job relates to the degree that qualified
you/or this OPT," so students can explain how their employment relates to their major area of
study.
Policy:
One eligibility requirement for practical training is that the practical training opportunity be
"directly related to the student's major area of study" (8 CFR 214.2(/)(J0)(ii)(A)). Similarly, for
the STEM OPT extension, the "practical training opportunity ... must be directly related to the
degree that qualifies the student for such extension" (8 CFR 214.2(/)(J0)(ii)(C)(4)). "When a
DSO recommends a student for OPT, the school assumes the added responsibility for
maintaining the SEVIS record of that student for the entire period of authorized OPT ... " and
must update "the student's record to reflect these reported changes for the duration of time that
training is authorized" (8 CFR 214.2(/)(J l)(ii) and (/)(12)(i)). Prior to making a
recommendation, the DSO at the student's educational institution must ensure that the student is
eligible for the type and period of OPT and that the student is aware of their responsibility for
maintaining status while on OPT (8 CFR 214.2(/)(l l)(ii)(A)). The requirement that practical
training be directly related to a student's major area of study is longstanding and meant to ensure
that the employment experience supplements the individual's educational pursuits.
SEVP recognizes that initiating the recommendation and approval process for OPT without
requiring a job is a significant complication in determining whether there is a direct relation
between an intended job and a student's course of study. However, nonimmigrant students only
have a limited time to obtain both the DSO recommendation and the EAD from USCIS before
finding a job. If students had to obtain a job first and then apply for a recommendation and
authorization, their ability to start working would be far less certain because an employer would
have to wait an unspecified period of time before the student could start and ultimately the
student's request for authorization could be denied, wasting both the employer's and student's
time. Additionally, it would increase the likelihood that students might start working prior to
obtaining proper authorization and therefore lose their immigration status because of
unauthorized employment. For these reasons, the regulations, except those pertaining to STEM
OPT, permit students to initiate the practical training process and then find a job.
Another potential complexity with practical training is that the relationship between an
employment opportunity and a student's major area of study may not be immediately
discemable. For example, when a student who graduates with a degree in music lists his/her
employer as a restaurant. There may not appear to be a direct relationship with the degree, but
SEVP Policy Guidance
Practical Training- Determining a Direct Relationship Between Employment and a Student's
Major Area of Study
the student could be employed as a musical entertainer. Conversely, a DSO should not assume a
direct relationship just because a student with an accounting degree reports working at an
accounting firm. Instead, students must describe their job-related duties and explain how those
duties relate to their major area of study.
Documenting the Direct Relationship:
Non immigrant students are responsible for providing a description of how their practical training
opportunity relates to their major area of study, which the DSO must review and retain.
Preferably, this description would be entered in the free text section in SEVIS, described above,
which is provided for the purpose of capturing this information. Students can enter the
information by using the Portal or DSOs can enter the information directly in SEVIS.
As an alternative to entering the information in SEVIS, the DSO must obtain an explanation of
how the job relates to the student's major area of study and retain that explanation in the
student's records. SEVP may request this information as part of a compliance review. If an
explanation is not entered in SEVIS, a notation should be made in the free text field indicating
that the DSO has received an explanation of the direct relationship and will maintain the record
in the student's file.
The written explanation, maintained in SEVIS or otherwise, should include the student's job
title, employer name, major area of study, whether full time5 or the average hours worked per
week, and a brief explanation of bow the job is directly related to the student's studies. The
regular duties should be explained and the nexus between those duties and the degree described
(see examples provided at the end of this document).
Assessing the Direct Relationship:
As described in the regulations (8 CFR 21-1.2(1)(1 J)(ii)), when a DSO recommends a student for
OPT or STEM OPT, the school assumes additional responsibilities to monitor and update the
student's SEVIS record. Consistent with those responsibilities, a DSO must make a
determination of whether there is a direct relationship between the job and the major area of
study. The decision should be made on a case-by-case basis. The inquiry is whether there is a
logical connection between the duties involved in the practical training opportunity and the
student's major area of study. In the vast majority of cases, a DSO should be able to make that
assessment based on the documentation provided by the student. If a DSO believes that the
documentation does not provide a sufficient explanation, they should ask for additional evidence
to better understand the relationship. Although not required, DSOs may make use of websites
that provide a general crosswalk between jobs and programs of study. Examples of these types of
websites include, but are not limited to, sites maintained by the College Board,6 the Department
of Labor7 and the National Center for Education Statistics.8
4 DSO instruction; Student instruction.
5 For the purpose of this policy, full time is considered to be 20 hours or more per week.
6  l legeboard.org/majors-careers.
8  lt.aspx?v=55.
SEVP Policy Guidance
Practical Training-Determining a Direct Relationship Between Employment and a Student's
Major Area of Study
Common Scenarios and Responsibilities:
The following describes common scenarios and responsibilities related to establishing a
relationship between practical training opportunities and a student's major area of study:
1. Students on Pre-Completion OPT: The DSO is not required to report employer
information directly in SEVIS for students engaging in Pre-Completion OPT. However,
the DSO should collect and retain a written explanation from the student on how each
OPT employment opportunity directly relates to their major area of study.
2. Students on Post-Completion OPT: When making a recommendation for OPT, the
DSO should inform the student of the responsibility to only engage in practical training
opportunities that are directly related to the student's major area of study. The student is
responsible for reporting their employment to the DSO and explaining, in writing, how
the job relates to their major area of study so that the information can be reported in
SEVIS or otherwise retained. This written explanation should be kept in the student's
record if not entered in the free text field in SEVIS.
3. Students on STEM OPT Extension: Prior to making a recommendation for a STEM
OPT extension or when adding new STEM OPT employment, the DSO must collect a
completed and signed Form 1-983, "Training Plan for STEM OPT Students." The Form
1-983 must be retained in the student's record.
4. Students registered with the SEVP Student Portal: DSOs may direct students to report
their OPT information via the Portal. However, this does not negate the DSO's
recordkeeping and other responsibilities related to practical training. For that reason, it
may be necessary to implement spot-check procedures to ensure that appropriate
information is provided by the student. Students who fail to report or enter their
information in the Portal in a timely manner or otherwise fail to comply with their
reporting requirements may be deemed to be in violation of their nonimmigrant status.
Sample Explanations of a Direct Relationship
1. Bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering: I work full time as an Electrical Engineer at
ABC Corp., a government contractor. In my job, I analyze client requirements for
electrical systems and provide them with cost estimates of such systems. My work
requires understanding of electrical circuit theory, which I studied in-depth at the
University of ABC.
2. Bachelor's degree in Business: I work full time as a Loan Officer at a mortgage company,
Happy Homes, where I meet with clients and evaluate, authorize and recommend
approval of loan applfoations. On a daily basis, I use the knowledge I gained in my credit
analysis, sales and marketing classes that I took as part of my major program of study.
3. Master's degree in Music: I am working at a hospital playing the harp in patient rooms. I
also conduct hands-on harp beginner workshops for long-term patients. On average, I
SEVP Policy Guidance
Practical Training-Determining a Direct Relationship Between Employment and a Student's
Major Area of Study
work at the hospital 35 hours a week. My duties directly utilize the skills and knowledge
I acquired from my coursework and degree in music therapy.
4. PhD in Computer Science: I am employed as a Computer and Information Research
Scientist at ABC Research Institute. I work as part of a team of scientists and engineers
that designs experiments to test the operation of various software systems. My work
builds on research in complex algorithms and machine learning, which I studied as part
of my dissertation.
5. Master's degree in Kinesiology: I am working 25 hours a week in a health food store as a
consultant for Self-Made Inc., designing and teaching exercise classes that are
incorporated into a customer's overall nutrition and exercise plan. My designs and
customer instruction draw upon my studies and classwork in exercise therapy and
physical reconditioning.
Limits of use - no private right of action: Nothing in this guidance limits SEVP's authority or
discretion to interpret, administer or enforce any statute, regulation, pol icy or guidance related to
SEVP certification. It is not intended to, does not, and may not be relied upon to create or confer
any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any person,
individual or other party, public or private, in any administrative, civil or criminal matter.
~SD. Hicks
Division Chief, External Operations
Student and Exchange Visitor Program