U5. Dag of Hots
. US, Immigration
) and Customs
g Enforcement
dd Teansmission for the Form 1-20
SEVP Policy Gui
jamee: (Ise of Eleesronie Signature
Regulatory and Statutory Background: 8 CFR 214.318)
Date: Oetwber |
Purposes This guidance establishes the Student and Exchangs Visitor Prograun’s (SEVP)
procedures Zor the use af electron signatetes on the Parra I-28, “Centficate of Eligibility fo
‘nd electronic cransmssine ofthe fort. School oiiials sw
ive te following guidance when issuing tke Form I-20 to inital and eortinuing nonimmigrant
suxdents and theie deperients
Background: Acthorizing regulations require
issuing the form to nonienmigcant studens and their dependent
Jnool officials to sign the Form 1-20 betore
SCPE 2131%))
jr services in 2020. When
as due
he COVID-[9 pardemie disrupted international mai and cour
designated schoo! ollicils (SOs) and students Were unable vo physivally meet on cam
to travel restrictions and closed eampuses, SEVP allowed the Form [-20 to be signed and
transmittee cleeirnieully. [his redvced the bentes on students. DSOs, and thei respective
institwrions and uvoided pandemic-relats! disruptions tothe enrollment und education of
igrant students, Allowing slevivnie signatures and transmission also expedited issiemee
‘orm 1-20 and helped W avoid expenses and coryplicatons related to mil
In response to Executive Order 14012, “Restoring Faith in Our Legal Immigration Systems and
Stronuthening Integration ard Inelusion Efforts for New Americans.” SEVP identified
3 efficieney in the imsigration system and reduce unnecessary
‘ommendations 19 i
1, DSO. Designated setoo! official
2, SEVP. Student and Pxchunge Visio: Progen
SEVP Policy Guidanoe
ae of Eleotonie Signatures and Transmission for the Form 1-20
Poticy:
1, Use and acceptance of electronic signatures. DSOy cay physically sign the orm 5.20 or
Jnpul theic own electronic signature, SEVP accepts electronic signatuees in the following
forms.
1.1. Flecironicsignarures usiug software programs or applications. Schoo! officials may
sign all signarure ficlds ou the Form §-20 using elecicoaic signatures produced with software
programs or applications,
2. Hlectronically reproduced copies of a signature. Seboo! officials may sign ul signature
fields on the Korn -20 using digiilly rroduced copies of a signature. A digitally
tepreduced copy may be a seunned image of a physical signature
2. Electronic transmission of the Furm T-20. School officials may sean and email sn
lectronic version of Form 1-20 that has been signed using cither a physical or electronic
sianature, as cule in Section 1,10 aoninumigeant students and their dependents
Alternatively, school aflcials may use a secure platform thal siuderus van access wih
individual aceoont credentials to send an electronic version of @ Poem f-20. This may inclnde
‘school portl or other secure site that studouts can access,
Upon receipt of the electconically transmitted Form I-20, students should print a copy «0
present al any required visa interviews and upon arrival ul a T'S. poet of entry.
Refereness:
8.CFR 214.308)
Limits of nse—nu private right of action:
‘This SEVP Policy Guidance applies to-and is binding cm all SEVP employces unless specifically
exempt Its intention is soley far the guidance af SEVP personnel inthe performance of their
offiial duties, Nothing in this guidance Emits SEVP's authovity ot diseretion to interpret,
sulminister or enforce any statute, regulation, paliey or guidance related ta SEVP certification
‘This guidence may be modified, superseded ar withdrawn at any time. Ic is not intended fo, does
‘not, and may «oc he eelicd upon lo create or confer any right or benefit, substantive or
prosedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any person, individual or other party, public or
private, in any administrative, civil or eiminal mater.
Division Chief, Eterna] Operations.
‘Student and Exchange Visitor Program