ps U.S. Immigration
and Customs
~) Enforcement
SEVP Poliey Guidance: Form I-21 Issuance and Schoo! Use of Roce
Primary Regulation: 8 (12 214.306)
Date: June 4, 2019
Issue!
‘The Form 1-20, “Centficate of Eligibility
‘otimmigrant students wlio have been accepted for enrollmeac ata ..S. educational institution
certified by the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP). The document is ertically
‘important ta nanimrnigrant sludents who must present it when applying fora visa and when
seeking admission te dhe United States, In thal contest, SEVP has been asked whether reer
‘may receive the Form, 1-20 dizeotly from a school’s designated schoo! oficial (DSQ} end conto!
the cisribution tothe prospective studor. For reasons of privacy, security and fraud prevention,
the Form 1-20 must be issued directly by a school to the noninnnigrant student, his ar hee
slependents, or, Zor mins, 2 the pecent or guardian of the aonimsnigrent student.
Backgroun
‘The Student and Exchange Visi‘or Information System (SEVIS) was created as part of
legislative mandate to collect and main‘ain information on nonimmigrant students who enter the
United States on F, M or Fnoniramigrant visas, SEVIS is clasified as system of rocords, for
‘which the Privacy Aet requires U.S, Immigration ancl Customs Enforcement to publish notice in
the Federal Register! This note is generally eierred io as a Systom of Records Notice
(SORN), which establishes, among other things, aulborized disclosures for SEVIS records. The
Form 1-20 is @ SEVIS record and is therefore subject to the elated SORNS, the first of which
‘was published on March 22, 2005, and « mociiod SORN published oa January 5, 2010."
Tn atklition to the SORNs, SEVP has sls published sever] online resources on SEV
inclaing historical user anus, fat shea aed webinars oullning user responsibil
ciligations and the importance of protecting the integrity of SEVIS data, These resoucees sate
that eeruiters cannot be given Foris 20—"SEVP-venifid school seus Fore 1-20 diretly 19
seuden and “A reorite has no proper role in handing [the] Fozm 1-20."* Additionally, SEVP
is asure of instances where reeailrs, having obisined a sadents Form 1-20, wabsequertly
demanded addtional payments belove providing it ack tothe student in advance of a mocting
"See Stun uf Recon Notes SOR}
* Privacy Aet of ISTH; System of Record (70 FR 14177, Yar.
nip vn govcontenlpkseT R295. 22/pa8 5888 pl?
‘Prvaey Aot of 1974; Stem of Records 75 /R £12 ptt Ja, 8, 2010),
vane govinis govicontern phe R2910-D-05'p4E0-5 268
‘See ting
SEVP Policy Guidance
Form 1-20 Issuamee and Sehaxil Use of Recruiters
‘with the consulate tor a visa or traveling to the United States. Sch eases and other potential
abuses neoessitateresiietions on the issues and distribution o Farins 1-20,
Ps
‘For reasons of privacy, security and fraud prevention, Uae Foem [-20 must be issued by a DSO at
an SEVP-cortified school and sent directly to a nonimmigrant student, bis or her éependents, or,
Far minors, the parent or guardian othe nonimmigrant stent
The decision to limit distibution of any SEVIS record protects the privacy of individuals
enhances sesurity, protects against fraud or manipulation, znd is consistent with the relevant laws
and regulations, SEVIS is resirieted database for authorized users only, Information contsined
in SEVIS is classified as personally identifiable information and is subject to the SEVIS SORN,
pursuant to the Privacy Act of [974, Consoquently, SEVP is roquired to protect the information
as rected by the SEVIS SORN, whieh only permits disclosure to
‘chumerated parties and only under limited circumstances.” Consistent wilh, und in addition to,
the statutory zostections, SEVP regulations state that aly a DSO may issue a Form 120 10a
prospective nonimmigrant student and his or her dependents.
For these reasons, DSOs are only authorized wo release the Form 1-20 directly to nonimmigrant
stents, their dependents, or, for minors, co their parent or legal guardian,
Limits of use —no private right of acti
‘This SEVP Policy Guidance applics to and is binding on all SEVP omployces unless speeiticaly
cexempl. Is intention is solely for the guidance of SEVP personnel in the performace of thelr
official duties. Nothing inthis guidance limits SEVP's authority or diseretion ta interpret,
administer or enforce any statute, regulation, poliey or guidaee related to SEVP certification,
This guidance may be modified, superseded or withdrawn gt any timc, Its not intended to, doos
nal, und may nol be relied upam tn erea'e or confer any right or Benefit, substantive or
procedural, enlarveable al law arin equity by uny person, individual or other party, public or
private In any administative, ivil or erimiaal matter
DBivision Chiet, External Operations
Student und Exchange Visior Pngrams
* pivacy Act of 197; Depatnat of omeland Scart US. mira es 1 Sale
Hs
BOR I