Instructions for Request for Premium Processing Service USCIS
Form I-907
Department of Homeland Security
OMB No. 1615-0048
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Expires 02/28/2027
What Is the Purpose of Form I-907?
Use Form I-907 to request Premium Processing Service on certain petitions or applications for which this service is
available.
When Should I Use Form I-907?
You should use Form I-907 to request Premium Processing Service for the petitions or applications for which Premium
Processing Service is available. Visit our website at www.uscis.gov/forms/how-do-i-use-premium-processing-service
for details about which immigration benefit requests are available for this service.
You may file your request for Premium Processing Service with the applicable benefit request. You may also file the
request for Premium Processing Service after you file the applicable benefit request, as long as USCIS has not made a
final decision on the request. You cannot request Premium Processing Service for a benefit request that is reopened after
an initial decision was made on the request.
You, or your attorney or accredited representative, may request Premium Processing Service only if you filed the
corresponding immigration benefit request (for example, Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker). Any attorney
or accredited representative who submits the request must also file a properly completed Form G-28, Notice of Entry of
Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative, unless the attorney or accredited representative has already filed
Form G-28 in the case. The Form G-28 filed with Form I-907 by a new attorney or accredited representative will replace
Form G-28 or Form G-28I filed with the underlying benefit request, and USCIS will recognize the new attorney as the
attorney of record in the case.
Premium Processing Service guarantees that USCIS will take one of several possible actions (issue an approval notice,
a denial notice, a notice of intent to deny, or a request for evidence) on the immigration benefit request within a certain
processing timeframe. The length of the processing timeframe is based on the classification or category requested.
Refer to the table in the Which Forms are Designated for Premium Processing? section of these Instructions for the
relevant premium processing timeframes. If we do not take action on the benefit request within the applicable processing
timeframe, your Premium Processing Service fee will be refunded, but we will continue to process the case. However, we
may retain the premium processing fee and not take action on the request within the applicable processing timeframe if we
open an investigation for fraud or misrepresentation relating to the benefit request.
In the event USCIS issues a notice of intent to deny or a request for evidence, the premium processing timeframe will stop
and will re-commence with a new applicable timeframe on the date that we receive a response to the notice of intent to
deny or the request for evidence.
General Instructions
We provide free forms through the USCIS website. To view, print, or complete our forms, you should use the latest
version of Adobe Reader, which you can download for free at  If you do not have internet
access, you may call the USCIS Contact Center and ask that we mail a form to you.
Form I-907 Instructions 04/01/24 Page 1 of 6
Signature. You (or your signing authority) must properly complete your request. USCIS will not accept a stamped or
typewritten name in place of any signature on this request. If you are under 14 years of age, your parent or legal guardian
may sign the request on your behalf. A legal guardian may also sign for a mentally incompetent person. If your request is
not signed, or if the signature is not valid, we will reject your request. See 8 CFR 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A). If USCIS accepts a
request for adjudication and determines that it has a deficient signature, USCIS may deny the request.
NOTE: If Form I-907 does not contain a handwritten signature, we will return the request for Premium Processing
Service (along with the Premium Processing Service fee) to the requestor.
Validity of Signatures. USCIS will consider a photocopied, faxed, or scanned copy of the original, handwritten signature
as valid for filing purposes. The photocopy, fax, or scan must be of the original document containing the handwritten, ink
signature.
Filing Fee. See Form G-1055, available at www.uscis.gov/forms, for specific information about the fees applicable to
this form.
USCIS Contact Center. For additional information on the request and Instructions about where to file, change of
address, and other questions, visit the USCIS Contact Center at www.uscis.gov/contactcenter or call 800-375-5283
Disability Accommodations/Modifications. To request a disability accommodation/modification, follow the instructions
on your appointment notice or at www.uscis.gov/accommodationsinfo.
How to Complete Form I-907
You must fill out a separate Form I-907 for each petition or application submitted. Follow the steps below to complete
your request.
1. Type or print legibly in black ink.
2. If you need extra space to complete any item within this request, use the space provided in Part 6. Additional
Information or attach a separate sheet of paper. Type or print your name and Alien Registration Number (A-Number)
(if any) at the top of each sheet; indicate the Page Number, Part Number, and Item Number to which your answer
refers; and sign and date each sheet.
3. Answer all questions fully and accurately. If a question does not apply to you (for example, if you have never been
married and the question asks, “Provide the name of your current spouse”), type or print “N/A” unless otherwise
directed. If your answer to a question which requires a numeric response is zero or none (for example, “How many
children do you have” or “How many times have you departed the United States”), type or print “None” unless
otherwise directed.
Specific Instructions
Part 1. Information about the Person Filing This Request
Item Number 1. Alien Registration Number (A-Number) (if any). Provide your A-Number. We use your A-Number
to identify your immigration records. It begins with an “A” and can be found on correspondence you have received from
the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or USCIS. If you do not have an A-Number, type or print “N/A.”
Item Number 2. USCIS Online Account Number. You will only have a USCIS Online Account Number (OAN) if you
previously filed a form that has a receipt number that begins with IOE. If you filed the form online, you can find your
OAN in your account profile. If you mailed us the form, you can find your OAN at the top of the Account Access Notice
we sent you. If you do not have a receipt number that begins with IOE, you do not have an OAN. The OAN is not the
same as an A-Number.
Form I-907 Instructions 04/01/24 Page 2 of 6
Item Number 3. Your Full Name. Provide the full name of the person filing this request.
Item Number 4. Company or Organization Named in the Related Case. If filed on behalf of a company, enter the
name of the company or organization named in the related case.
Item Numbers 5. - 6. Mailing Address. Provide the address where you would like to receive written correspondence
regarding your request.
Item Number 7. Physical Address. Provide your physical address if it is different from your mailing address.
Item Number 8. Request for Premium Processing Service. Select the appropriate Premium Processing Service
Request.
Part 2. Information About the Request
Item Numbers 1. - 8. Provide the requested information about the related immigration benefit request for which you are
requesting Premium Processing Service. USCIS must have this information in order to match your Form I-907 with the
related form for which you are requesting Premium Processing Service.
Requested Information About the Related Petition (i.e., Form I-129, Petition for Nonimmigrant Worker, or Form
I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers)
If you are requesting an upgrade of the pending related petition to Premium Processing Service, you must complete Item
Numbers 1. - 8. in Part 2. of Form I-907 or we will reject your Form I-907 and return the filing fee.
If you are filing Form I-907 together with the related petition for which you are requesting Premium Processing Service,
you must complete Item Numbers 1., 3., 4., and 5. in Part 2. or we will reject your Form I-907 and return the fee. (You
do not have to complete Item Number 2. because, if you are filing Form I-907 together with the related petition, you will
not know the receipt number of the underlying petition at the time you file.)
Requested Information About the Related Application (i.e., Form I-765, Application for Employment
Authorization, or Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status)
If are requesting an upgrade of the pending related application to Premium Processing Service, complete Item Numbers
1. - 8. in Part 2. of Form I-907 that pertain to your application.
If you are filing Form I-907 together with the related application for which you are requesting Premium Processing
Service, you must complete Item Numbers 1., 3., and 4. in Part 2. or we will reject your Form I-907 and return the fee.
(You do not have to complete Item Number 2. because, if you are filing Form I-907 together with the related application,
you will not know the receipt number of the underlying application at the time you file.)
Part 3. Requestor’s Statement, Contact Information, Declaration, Certification, and Signature
Item Numbers 1. - 7. Select the appropriate box to indicate whether you read this request yourself or whether you had
an interpreter assist you. If someone assisted you in completing the request, select the box indicating that you used a
preparer. Further, you must sign and date your request and provide your daytime telephone number, mobile telephone
number (if any), fax number (if any), and email address (if any). Every request MUST contain the signature of the
requestor (or parent or legal guardian, if applicable). A stamped or typewritten name in place of a signature is not
acceptable.
Part 4. Interpreter’s Contact Information, Certification, and Signature
Item Numbers 1. - 7. If you used anyone as an interpreter to read the Instructions and questions on this request to you in
a language in which you are fluent, the interpreter must fill out this section, provide his or her name, the name and address
of his or her business or organization (if any), his or her daytime telephone number, his or her mobile telephone number
(if any), and his or her email address (if any). The interpreter must sign and date the request.
Form I-907 Instructions 04/01/24 Page 3 of 6
Part 5. Contact Information, Declaration, and Signature of the Person Preparing this Request, if Other Than the
Requestor
Item Numbers 1. - 8. This section must contain the signature of the person who completed your request, if other than
you, the requestor. If the same individual acted as your interpreter and your preparer, that person should complete both
Part 4. and Part 5. If the person who completed this request is associated with a business or organization, that person
should complete the business or organization name and address information. Anyone who helped you complete this request
MUST sign and date the request. A stamped or typewritten name in place of a signature is not acceptable. If the person who
helped you prepare your request is an attorney or accredited representative, he or she may also need to submit a completed
Form G-28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative, or Form G-28I, Notice of Entry of
Appearance as Attorney In Matters Outside the Geographical Confines of the United States, along with your request.
Part 6. Additional Information
Item Numbers 1. - 5. If you need extra space to provide any additional information within this request, use the space
provided in Part 6. Additional Information. If you need more space than what is provided in Part 6., you may make
copies of Part 6. to complete and file with your request, or attach a separate sheet of paper. Type or print your name and
A-Number (if any) at the top of each sheet; indicate the Page Number, Part Number, and Item Number to which your
answer refers; and sign and date each sheet.
We recommend that you print or save a copy of your completed request for your records.
Which Forms are Designated for Premium Processing?
The following benefit requests are designated under the regulations for Premium Processing Service. Please be aware
that you may only request premium processing for a benefit if USCIS has announced on its website that premium
processing is available for that benefit. Your request for premium processing must also comply with any conditions that
may apply. Therefore, you may not request premium processing for a benefit that is designated for premium processing
under the regulations but not available for premium processing on the USCIS website. To determine if Premium
Processing is available for your benefit request, please visit our website at www.uscis.gov/I-907 or call the USCIS
See Form, G-1055, available at www.uscis.gov/forms, for information about how to pay premium processing fees.
Form I-907 Instructions 04/01/24 Page 4 of 6
Classification or Category
Processing Time
Form Designated for Premium
(when available)
Processing
Form I-129, Petition for a E-1, E-2, E-3, H-1B, H-3, L1 15 Days
Nonimmigrant Worker (including Blanket L-1), O, P, Q, or
TN nonimmigrant classification
H-2B or R nonimmigrant
15 Days
classification
Form I-140, Immigrant EB-1 (E11, E12), EB-2 (E21 non- 15 Days
Petition for Alien Workers NIW), or EB-3 (E31, E32, EW3)
immigrant classification
EB-1 (E13) or EB-2 (E21 NIW) 45 Days
immigrant classification
(after all prerequisites are met)
Form I-539, Application E-1, E-2, E-3, F-1, F-2, H-4, J-1,
30 Days
to Extend/Change J-2, L-2, M-1, M-2, O-3, P-4, or
(after all prerequisites are met)
Nonimmigrant Status R-2 nonimmigrant classification
Form I-765, Application I-765 categories 30 Days
for Employment
(after all prerequisites are met)
Authorization
The Premium Processing fee is in addition to all other applicable filing fees. Form I-907 may not be filed by a beneficiary
or co-applicant of the primary form for which premium processing is being requested.
Where to File?
Please see our website at www.uscis.gov/i-907 for the most current information about where to file this request.
Address Change
If you are not a U.S. citizen, you must notify USCIS of your new address within 10 days of moving from your previous
residence. For information on changing your address, go to our website at www.uscis.gov/addresschange or call the
USCIS Contact Center.
NOTE: Do not submit a change of address request to the USCIS Lockbox.
Processing Information
Initial Processing. Once USCIS accepts your request, we will check it for completeness. If you do not properly
complete this request, you will not establish a basis for your eligibility and we may reject or deny your request.
USCIS Forms and Information
To ensure you are using the latest version of this request, visit www.uscis.gov.
Form I-907 Instructions 04/01/24 Page 5 of 6
Penalties
If you knowingly and willfully falsify or conceal a material fact or submit a false document with your Form I-907, we will
reject your request without refunding the filing fee and may deny any other immigration benefit. In addition, you will face
severe penalties provided by law and may be subject to criminal prosecution.
DHS Privacy Notice
AUTHORITIES: The information requested on this form, and the associated evidence, is collected under the
Immigration and Nationality Act section 286(u).
PURPOSE: The primary purpose for providing the requested information on this form is to request Premium Processing
Service on certain petitions or applications designated as eligible for premium processing. DHS uses the information you
provide to grant or deny the immigration benefit you are seeking.
DISCLOSURE: The information you provide is voluntary. However, failure to provide the requested information,
including your Social Security number (if applicable), and any requested evidence, may delay a final decision or result in
denial of your form.
ROUTINE USES: DHS may share the information you provide on this form and any additional requested evidence with
other federal, state, local, and foreign government agencies and authorized organizations. DHS follows approved routine
uses described in the associated published system of records notices [DHS/USCIS/ICE/CBP-001 Alien File and National
File Tracking System, DHS/USCIS-007 Benefits Information System, and DHS/USCIS-018 Immigration Biometric
and Background Check], and the published privacy impact assessment [DHS/USCIS/PIA-016(a) Computer Linked
Application Information Management System and Associated Systems], which you can find at www.dhs.gov/privacy.
DHS may also share the information, as appropriate, for law enforcement purposes or in the interest of national security.
Paperwork Reduction Act
An agency may not conduct or sponsor an information collection, and a person is not required to respond to a collection
of information, unless it displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number. The public
reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated at 0.37 hours per response, including the time for reviewing
instructions, gathering the required documentation and information, completing the request, preparing statements, attaching
necessary documentation, and submitting the request. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of
this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
Regulatory Coordination Division, Office of Policy and Strategy, 5900 Capital Gateway Drive, Mail Stop #2140, Camp
Springs, MD 20588-0009; OMB No. 1615-0048. Do not mail your completed Form I-907 to this address.
Form I-907 Checklist
Did you completely fill out and sign the request?
Did you attach a separate check or money order for the Premium Process Service and a separate check for the
relating petition or application, if applicable?
If you wish to have the notice mailed to you rather than wait for the batch-printed notice, submit a pre-paid express
mail label and an envelope for mailing.
For your records, you should keep copies of your request packet.
Form I-907 Instructions 04/01/24 Page 6 of 6