SEVP Policy Guidance S13: Form I-20 – Student and Dependent Personal Information
Fields in SEVIS
Issue Date: August 31, 2016
Effective Date: August 31, 2016
Supersedes: N/A
Status: Interim Final
Applicable to: 8 CFR 214.3(k), 8 CFR 214.3(g)
Purpose/Background: This guidance interprets aspects of the regulations and process for
designated school official (DSO) issuance of Forms I-20, “Certificate of Eligibility for
Nonimmigrant Student Status,” to F and M nonimmigrants. This guidance also interprets
associated DSO recordkeeping and reporting requirements to guide Student and Exchange
Visitor Program (SEVP) adjudicators.
DSOs must comply with relevant federal regulations and should comply with the guidance
interpretation of them to fulfill their responsibilities to the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security (DHS). Where more restrictive, adjudicators should ensure that DSOs comply with
school policies.
Attachments: None.
Definitions: None.
Acronyms:
1. DHS. Department of Homeland Security
2. DSO. Designated school official
3. SEVIS. Student and Exchange Visitor Information System
4. SEVP. Student and Exchange Visitor Program
Policy:
1. Basic guidelines. After determining that a prospective F-1 or M-1 student has met the
conditions for issuance of the Form I-20,1 the DSO must sign and issue the form to each
prospective F-1 and M-1 student and to each of their prospective accompanying or joining
dependents (collectively “F or M nonimmigrants”). Issuance of a Form I-20 enables the
following:
 Payment of the I-901 Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) Fee (as
applicable),
1 8 CFR 214.3(k)
Policy Guidance S13
Form I-20 – Student and Dependent Personal Information Fields in SEVIS
 Application for an F or M visa,2 and
 Application for admission to the United States.3
A DSO must complete all required Form I-20 fields accurately in SEVIS both for initial and any
subsequent Forms I-20. By signing the Form I-20, a DSO attests that all information on the Form
I-20 is correct.4
2. Passport and equivalent documents. A DSO should collect a copy of the prospective F or
M nonimmigrant’s passport prior to issuing a Form I-20. This enables the DSO to enter
student and dependent information accurately in SEVIS.
 The passport should be valid. However, a DSO may use an expired passport if the
prospective F or M nonimmigrant is in the process of renewing a passport.
 If a passport is not available, a DSO should request copies of other, equivalent
government-issued travel documents or a certificate of birth. The DSO should retain
these copies in the student’s file5 at the school.
 If a valid passport was not used for information entry during initial Form I-20 issuance,
the DSO should crosscheck the valid passport and correct SEVIS information, as
necessary, when the nonimmigrant reports to the school and is made Active in SEVIS.
3. Inputting initial student and dependent biographical information in SEVIS. A DSO
should use information contained in a prospective F or M nonimmigrant’s passport (or its
equivalent documents as described in section 2) to enter biographical data into the “Class of
Admission and Personal Information” and “Add Dependent” pages in SEVIS.
3.1 Name fields in SEVIS. When entering names in SEVIS, a DSO should use the
information entered in the machine-readable zone of a passport as a guide. A DSO
should refer to detailed SEVIS Help Hub instructions, “SEVIS Name Standards” to
enter student or dependent names into SEVIS.
3.2. Gender field in SEVIS.
 The student and dependent gender field includes the following options:
o Female
o Male
o Unknown/Other
2 If the prospective student and/or his or her dependent (s) is required to obtain a visa. See 22 CFR 41.2.
3 8 CFR 214.2(f)(1)(i)(A), 8 CFR 214.2(f)(3), 8 CFR 214.2(m)(1)(i)(A), 8 CFR 214.2(m)(3), 8 CFR 214.3(k)
4 See Form I-20 School Attestation section.
5 8 CFR 214.3(g)
Policy Guidance S13
Form I-20 – Student and Dependent Personal Information Fields in SEVIS
 A DSO should only select the “unknown/other” option if the passport (or its
equivalent documents as described in section 2) contains no information related to
the gender of the prospective student or dependent. Upon the arrival of the student
or dependent at the school, the DSO must update the field in accordance with
passport or U.S. visa information.
4. Changes to student and dependent biographical information in SEVIS. A DSO should
request a copy of a continuing F or M nonimmigrant’s passport to validate any change to
biographical information fields within “Class of Admission and Personal Information” and
“Add Dependent” pages in SEVIS.
 The DSO should not change these fields without first receiving passport confirmation of
the change.
 The DSO should retain copies of these documents in the student’s file.6
References:
1. 8 CFR 214.2(f)(1)(i)(A)
2. 8 CFR 214.2(f)(3)
3. 8 CFR 214.3(g)
4. 8 CFR 214.3(k)
5. 8 CFR 214.2(m)(1)(i)(A)
6. 8 CFR 214.2(m)(3)
Limits of use – no private right of action: This SEVP Policy Guidance applies to and is
binding on all SEVP employees unless specifically exempt. Its intention is solely for the
guidance of SEVP personnel in the performance of their official duties. Nothing in this guidance
limits SEVP’s authority or discretion to interpret, administer or enforce any statute, regulation,
policy or guidance related to SEVP certification. This guidance may be modified, superseded or
withdrawn at any time. It is not intended to, does not, and may not be relied upon to create or
confer any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any
person, individual or other party, public or private, in any administrative, civil or criminal matter.
Signed by Rachel E. Canty on August 31, 2016
Deputy Director, External Operations
Student and Exchange Visitor Program
6 See footnote 5.